AI and Emerging Technologies Presentation/Innovation Institute AI Presentation 2019.md, before:

autoscale: false
slidenumbers: true
footer: ![inline 50%](photos/Innovation_Institute_white_transparent.png)


## AI and Emerging Technologies in the Middle School
### Sean Tibor and Pedro Uribe

![](photos/sasha_samantha_robots.jpg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# Sean Tibor

* 6th & 8th Grade Computer Science Teacher
* 1st Year Teaching
* Transfer from IT and Digital Marketing Career
* Co-host of [Teaching Python Podcast](https://www.teachingpython.fm)

[@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor)

![right](photos/sean_tibor.jpg)

---

# Pedro Uribe

---

# History of AI

AI is not a new idea. The first AI research happened back in the early 20th century with neural networks

Recent advances in computing power and neural network designs have lead to an explosion of interest in machine learning and deep learning

---

# [fit] The World in +5 Years

![](photos/tesla.jpeg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning?

---

![fit](https://blogs.nvidia.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Deep_Learning_Icons_R5_PNG.jpg.png)

[.hide-footer]
[.background-color: #FFFFFF]
[.slidenumber-style: #004712, alignment(right)]

---

# More AI

* Self Driving Cars
* Predictive Analytics
* Deep Learning
* Computer Vision

![right](photos/annotate.jpg)

---

# More Robotics

* Manufacturing
* Healthcare
* Consumer

![right](photos/cozmo_robots.jpg)

---

# Cheaper, Better VR

* [Oculus Quest](https://www.oculus.com/quest/?locale=en_US)
* [HTC Focus](https://enterprise.vive.com/ca/focus-plus/)
* [Oculus Go](https://www.oculus.com/go/?local=en_US)

![left](photos/alyssa_vr.jpg)

---

# More Capable AR

* [Apple ARKit 2](https://www.apple.com/ios/augmented-reality/)
* [Magic Leap](https://www.magicleap.com/magic-leap-one)
* [Microsoft HoloLens](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens/buy)

![right](photos/magicleap2.png)

---

# Middle School Considerations

1. Students are developing rapidly
2. Cognitive capabilities are sufficient for advanced topics
3. Foundational knowledge may not be established

![right](photos/megan_robot.jpg)

---

# Teaching AI

---

# Resources

---

# Activities

---

# Gaming

---

# Cross-Disciplinary AI Collaboration

---

## Virtual Reality Tools

* HTC Vive Pro
* Oculus Rift
* Google Expeditions
* 

---

## Robotics

![](photos/cozmo_students.jpg)

---

## Q&A

---

# Other Resources

## Middle School Robots

* Cozmo
* Vector
* Cue


---

## Thank You

Commit message:

reordered VR. Added Albert Samuel Photo

AI and Emerging Technologies Presentation/Innovation Institute AI Presentation 2019.md, after:

autoscale: false
slidenumbers: true
footer: ![inline 50%](photos/Innovation_Institute_white_transparent.png)


## AI and Emerging Technologies in the Middle School
### Sean Tibor and Pedro Uribe

![](photos/sasha_samantha_robots.jpg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# Sean Tibor

* 6th & 8th Grade Computer Science Teacher
* 1st Year Teaching
* Transfer from IT and Digital Marketing Career
* Co-host of [Teaching Python Podcast](https://www.teachingpython.fm)

[@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor)

![right](photos/sean_tibor.jpg)

---

# Pedro Uribe

---

# History of AI

![](https://imagesvc.timeincapp.com/v3/mm/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffortunedotcom.files.wordpress.com%2F2018%2F06%2Farthur-samuel_checkers_ibm-7090_c1962_horizontal-e1529684853944.jpeg&w=2200&q=70)

^Albert Samuel plays checkers against an IBM 701

^AI is not a new idea. The first AI research happened back in the early 20th century with neural networks

^Recent advances in computing power and neural network designs have lead to an explosion of interest in machine learning and deep learning

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# [fit] The World in +5 Years

![](photos/tesla.jpeg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning?

---

![fit](https://blogs.nvidia.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Deep_Learning_Icons_R5_PNG.jpg.png)

[.hide-footer]
[.background-color: #FFFFFF]
[.slidenumber-style: #004712, alignment(right)]

---

# More AI

* Self Driving Cars
* Predictive Analytics
* Deep Learning
* Computer Vision

![right](photos/annotate.jpg)

---

# More Robotics

* Manufacturing
* Healthcare
* Consumer

![right](photos/cozmo_robots.jpg)

---

# Cheaper, Better VR

* [Oculus Go](https://www.oculus.com/go/?local=en_US)
* [Oculus Quest](https://www.oculus.com/quest/?locale=en_US)
* [HTC Focus](https://enterprise.vive.com/ca/focus-plus/)

![left](photos/alyssa_vr.jpg)

^New VR hardware is cheaper, more capable, more comfortable, and wireless.

^Pine Crest uses VR to explore the human body with The Body VR and the world with Google Earth

---

# More Capable AR

* [Apple ARKit 2](https://www.apple.com/ios/augmented-reality/)
* [Magic Leap](https://www.magicleap.com/magic-leap-one)
* [Microsoft HoloLens](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens/buy)

![right](photos/magicleap2.png)

---

# Middle School Considerations

1. Students are developing rapidly
2. Cognitive capabilities are sufficient for advanced topics
3. Foundational knowledge may not be established

![right](photos/megan_robot.jpg)

---

# Teaching AI

---

# Resources

---

# Activities

---

# Gaming

---

# Cross-Disciplinary AI Collaboration

---

## Virtual Reality Tools

* HTC Vive Pro
* Oculus Rift
* Google Expeditions
* 

---

## Robotics

![](photos/cozmo_students.jpg)

---

## Q&A

---

# Other Resources

## Middle School Robots

* Cozmo
* Vector
* Cue


---

## Thank You
