Presentations/Hour of Python.md, before:

autoscale: false
slidenumbers: true
footer: ![inline 50%](photos/Innovation_Institute_white_transparent.png)
text: #FFFFFF
background-color: #004712
header: text-scale(1.0), line-height(0.9), #FFFFFF, alignment(left)
list: bullet-character(•), line-height(0.6)


<!--
Hour of Python Presentation
Pine Crest School
Innovation Institute 2019
For use with DeckSet 2.0
-->

# [fit] Hour of Python
## Kelly Schuster-Paredes ([@KellyPared](https://twitter.com/KellyPared))
## Sean Tibor ([@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor))

![](photos/dilnaam_stress_mask.jpg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# **Kelly Schuster-Paredes**
### Fort Lauderdale Middle School 
### Computer Science and Education Technology Specialist

[@KellyPared](https://twitter.com/KellyPared) on Twitter

```python
kelly_fun_facts = {'origin': 'Sebastian, Florida',
                  'countries_taught_in': ['Peru', 'USA', 'UK']}
```

![left](photos/kelly.jpg)

[.header: alignment(left)]

---

# **Sean Tibor**
### Fort Lauderdale Middle School 
### Computer Science and Education Technology Specialist

[@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor) on Twitter

```python
sean_fun_facts = {'origin': 'Anchorage, Alaska',
                  'can_sew': True}
```
![right](photos/Sean Hi Res Photo.jpg)

[.header: alignment(left)]

---

Co-hosts of the [*Teaching Python*](https://www.teachingpython.fm) podcast
(for good-looking and talented people like you)

```python
while shameless_plug:
    audience.listen_to(podcast='www.teachingpython.fm')
```

![right fit](photos/teaching_python.jpg)

---

# [fit] 1 Hour for Python?
## Let's get to it!

---

# [fit] What is Python?

^ Fastest growing programming language
^ "Full Spectrum" Language
^ Emphasizes readability

![](photos/sasha_samantha_robots.jpg)

--- 

# Student Python Projects

- Pi-Tops
- Smartphone Drop Sensors
- Interactive Fiction
- Embroidery
- Web Browser Automation
- NeoPixels

![right](photos/nate_dean_pitop.jpg)

---

# Today's Development Environments

- Repl.it (www.repl.it)
- Mu Editor (codewith.mu)
- Thonny (thonny.org)
- IDLE (Python.org)

(Or use your own)

^ If you don't have Mu or Thonny installed, just go with Repl.it

---

# Hello World

```python
print('Hello World')
```

---

# Challenges

---

# Wrap-Up

---

# Thank You

Commit message:

added challenges to Hour of Python

Presentations/Hour of Python.md, after:

autoscale: false
slidenumbers: true
footer: ![inline 50%](photos/Innovation_Institute_white_transparent.png)<br>[Python Cheat Sheet - http://bit.ly/ParedesPython](http://bit.ly/ParedesPython)
text: #FFFFFF
background-color: #004712
header: text-scale(1.0), line-height(0.9), #FFFFFF, alignment(left)
list: bullet-character(•), line-height(0.6)


<!--
Hour of Python Presentation
Pine Crest School
Innovation Institute 2019
For use with DeckSet 2.0
-->

# [fit] Hour of Python
## Kelly Schuster-Paredes ([@KellyPared](https://twitter.com/KellyPared))
## Sean Tibor ([@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor))

![](photos/dilnaam_stress_mask.jpg)

[.background-color: #000000]

---

# **Kelly Schuster-Paredes**
### Fort Lauderdale Middle School 
### Computer Science and Education Technology Specialist

[@KellyPared](https://twitter.com/KellyPared) on Twitter

```python
kelly_fun_facts = {'origin': 'Sebastian, Florida',
                  'countries_taught_in': ['Peru', 'USA', 'UK']}
```

![left](photos/kelly.jpg)

[.header: alignment(left)]

---

# **Sean Tibor**
### Fort Lauderdale Middle School 
### Computer Science and Education Technology Specialist

[@smtibor](https://twitter.com/smtibor) on Twitter

```python
sean_fun_facts = {'origin': 'Anchorage, Alaska',
                  'can_sew': True}
```
![right](photos/Sean Hi Res Photo.jpg)

[.header: alignment(left)]

---

Co-hosts of the [*Teaching Python*](https://www.teachingpython.fm) podcast
(for good-looking and talented people like you)

```python
while shameless_plug:
    audience.listen_to(podcast='www.teachingpython.fm')
```

![right fit](photos/teaching_python.jpg)

---

# [fit] 1 Hour for Python?
## Let's get to it!

---

# [fit] What is Python?

^ Fastest growing programming language
^ "Full Spectrum" Language
^ Emphasizes readability

![](photos/sasha_samantha_robots.jpg)

--- 

# Student Python Projects

- Pi-Tops
- Smartphone Drop Sensors
- Interactive Fiction
- Embroidery
- Web Browser Automation
- NeoPixels

![right](photos/nate_dean_pitop.jpg)

---

# Today's Development Environments

- Repl.it (www.repl.it)
- Mu Editor (codewith.mu)
- Thonny (thonny.org)
- IDLE (Python.org)

(Or use your own)

^ If you don't have Mu or Thonny installed, just go with Repl.it

---

# Hello World

```python
print('Hello World')
```

---

# Beginner Challenges

- Draw a square using Turtle
- Find the sum of all even numbers from 2 to 143,568 (inclusive)
- Connect to a Micro:bit and light up the display

---

# Intermediate Challenges
- Create a function that creates n-pointed stars using [Turtle](https://docs.python.org/3.7/library/turtle.html?highlight=turtle)
- Use [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) to get the current temperature and humidity for Boca Raton
- Plot accelerometer data from the microbit using [Mu](https://codewith.mu)

---

# Next Steps

- #100DaysOfCode Challenge (Get better at Python and problem solving)
- Follow us on Twitter
- Try some Google Colab!

---

# Thank You
